This project is an fMRI experimental task desgined to explore neural processes involved in self-representation. 

Task Design Parameters: We followed the methodology of Zhu et al. (2007). The subjects each participate in two functional scans while completing a trait judgement task. During this task, subjects are asked to judge if a series of adjectives accurately describe themself, their mother, or a famous person (e.g., Oprah). For the control condition, subjects judge whether the font of the word is in uppercase or lowercase. Comparing each of the experimental conditions to this control condition will allow us to isolate the voxels involved in making judgements specifically about a person. The task is a blocked design, so that we can sufficiently detect differences in the BOLD signal between conditions. Each run consists of eight 39-second blocks (2 blocks for each condition), which are counterbalanced using a Latin Square design. Each block starts with instructions (e.g., Does this adjective describe you/your mother/Oprah?; Is this word in uppercase/lowercase?), which are presented for 3 seconds. Next, 12 adjectives are presented, each for 2 seconds. Above each adjective is a cue word to remind subjects of who/what they are judging (e.g., self, mother, Oprah, font). After an adjective is presented for 2 seconds, it disappears while the cue word remains on the screen for 1 second. During this time, subjects answer yes/no with a button box. Between each block, subjects view a fixation cross for 33 seconds, which allows for the hemodynamic response to return to baseline. A total of 192 unique adjectives were selected from an established personality trait adjective pool of positive words (words from Anderson, 1968). The adjectives are organized into 16 lists of 12 words. The lists of words were pseudo-randomly selected for each block.
